#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured
#User documentation for the !DataLink tool

= !DataLink =

*Version 1.4* Released: 2013-01-04

== Introduction ==
This tool will upload the specified data files as a Galaxy Data Library
resource. The files are linked to the specified data path (not copied). If the specified path consists of a directory of files, this directory structure will be automatically mirrored in Galaxy.

This tool was developed in for the (AP27) Cancer Genomics Linkage Application funded by Australian National Data Service (ANDS).

=== Unsupported Features in v1.4 ===
Version 1.4 does not yet support updating newer versions of the same file. If you use this script to update a file with the same name, it will instead create another file with the same name in the Galaxy Library. In order to upload a newer version of the same datafile, use the Galaxy Admin interface, then go to Data > Manage data Libraries.

We will add in the update functionality in the next release.

== Dependency ==
 * Tested with [http://www.python.org/ Python 2.7.3]

== Installation ==
 * Download the zip file [http://code.google.com/p/ap27-cancer-genomics-linkage-app/downloads/detail?name=Galaxy_DataLink_1.4.zip&can=2&q= Galaxy_DataLink_1.4.zip]
 * Unzip in directory
 * Use the python script directory

== Usage ==
{{{
$python datalink.py --help
usage: datalink.py [-h] -u URL -l LIBID -k KEY -p DATAPATH

This script will upload the specified data files as a Galaxy Data Library
resource. The files are linked to the specified data path (not copied). If the
specified path consists of a directory of files, this directory structure will
be automatically mirrored in Galaxy.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -u URL, --url URL     Galaxy URL e.g. http://localhost:8080
  -l LIBID, --library LIBID
                        Name of the Galaxy library you want to create or update
  -k KEY, --key KEY     Your Galaxy API key
  -p DATAPATH, --path DATAPATH
                        Full path to the dataset that will be linked
}}}

== Example usage ==
Given the following directory structure
{{{
/testdata
  |
  |-----alu_test
         |
         |-----alu.a
         |-----alu.n
  |-----drosoph
         |
         |-----drosoph.aa
         |-----drosoph.nt

$python datalink.py -u <URL> -l testdata -k <GALAXY_API key> -p /testdata
Searching library id for:  testdatalink
Creating library:  testdatalink
ID for library ( testdatalink ):  03501d7626bd192f
Elapsed time:  00:00:06
}}}